History
English
Hindi
Sanskrit
Economics
 Political Science
 Psychology
Philosophy
Geography
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
BA in Humanities & Social Sciences
BA is a bachelor’s degree in subjects related to social sciences, liberal arts and fine arts. BA is an undergraduate degree, one needs to have completed their 10+2 from Arts stream for this course. Apart from this, even Science and Commerce students are eligible to pursue a BA degree.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a BA course:

BA colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Kolkata, Bangalore, Mumbai, Pune
Popular Specialisations: Economics, Sociology, History, Political Science, Geography
BA Entrance Exams: SUAT, JNUEE, BHU UET
Explore frequently asked questions on BA. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

BA in Arts (Fine/Visual/Performing)
BA in Arts is the bachelor’s degree undertaken to study courses in Fine Arts, Performing Arts and Performing Arts. BA in Arts is an undergraduate degree, one needs to have completed their 10+2 from Arts stream for this course. However, even Science and Commerce students are eligible to pursue a BA in Arts degree.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up BA in Arts course:

BA in Arts colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Pune, Kolkata, Bangalore, Chennai
Popular Specialisations: Music, Painting and Drawing, Dance and Choreography, Theatre, Film Making
Explore frequently asked questions on BA in Arts. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts. 

Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)
Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) is a bachelor’s degree undertaken in the field of Fine Arts, Visual Arts and Performing Arts. BFA is an undergraduate degree and candidates can pursue it right after their Class 12.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up BFA course:

BFA colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore, Hyderabad
Popular Specialisations: Applied Arts, Painting and Drawing, Sculpture, Film Making, Ceramics
BFA Entrance Exams: BHU UET, Jamia Millia Islamia Entrance Exam, KUK Entrance Exam
Explore frequently asked questions on BFA. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Other Popular Courses after 12th Arts 
Minimum Eligibility Requirement for UG Admissions: Students should have completed 10+2 from a recognised board with passing marks to pursue these courses.

Bachelor of Design (in Animation)
Bachelor of Design or BDes in Animation is a bachelor’s degree undertaken to become an animator. BDes is an undergraduate degree, students from Arts or even Science and Commerce stream are eligible to pursue a BDes degree.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a BDes in Animation course:

BDes in Animation colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Ahmedabad, Pune, Bangalore, Chandigarh
Popular Specialisations: 2D/3D Animation, Animation Film Making, Graphic/Web Design, Sound and Video Editing, Visual Effects (VFX)
BDes Animation Entrance Exams: UCEED, NIFT Entrance Exam, NID Entrance Exam
Explore frequently asked questions on BDes in Animation. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

BA LLB (5 year Integrated Programme)
BA LLB (Bachelor of Arts + Bachelor of Laws) is an integrated Law course offered at undergraduate level. Aspirants need to clear Class XII in any discipline with the minimum required percentage in order to be eligible for the course. The duration of BA LLB programme in Indian universities and colleges is typically five years.

Given below is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up BA LLB course in Law:

BA LLB colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Bangalore, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata
Popular Specialisations: Constitutional Law, Criminal Law
BA LLB Entrance Exams: CLAT, AILET, LSAT India
Explore frequently asked questions on BA LLB. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Bachelor of Design (BDes)
Bachelor of Design or BDes in Design is a bachelor’s degree undertaken to become a designer. BDes is an undergraduate degree, students from Arts or even Science and Commerce stream are eligible to pursue a BDes degree.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a BDes course:

BDes colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore
Popular Specialisations: Fashion Design, Interior Design, Communication Design, Industrial & Product Design
BDes Entrance Exams: NIFT Entrance Exam, NID Entrance Exam, UCEED
Explore frequently asked questions on BDes. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Bachelor of Science (in Hospitality & Travel)
Bachelors of Science in Hospitality & Travel, popularly known as BSc in Hospitality & Travel is an undergraduate course in Hospitality. To be able to pursue this course, the student must have cleared 10+2 or any other equivalent qualification from any stream.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a course in BSc Hospitality & Travel:

BSc Hospitality & Travel colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Pune
Popular Specialisations: Hotel/Hospitality Management, Catering, Travel and Tourism, Culinary Arts, Fares & Ticketing
BSc in Hospitality & Travel Entrance Exams: NCHMCT JEE, CUSAT
Explore frequently asked questions on BSc in Hospitality & Travel. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Bachelor of Science (in Design)
Bachelor of Science or BSc in Design is a bachelor’s degree undertaken to become a designer. BSc Design is an undergraduate degree, students from Arts, Science or Commerce stream are eligible to pursue a BSc Design degree.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a BSc Design course:

BSc Design colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Bangalore, Mumbai, Pune
Popular Specialisations: Fashion Design, Interior Design, Communication Design
Explore frequently asked questions on BSc Design. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Bachelor of Journalism & Mass Communication (BJMC)
BJMC (Bachelor of Journalism and Mass Communication) is a three-year long undergraduate degree programme. In order to be eligible for the course aspirants need to clear Class XII in any discipline. The course is suitable for students to wish to pursue their career in the media industry.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up BJMC course in Mass Communication & Media:

BJMC colleges in India
Popular Cities: Bangalore, Delhi/NCR, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune
Popular Specialisations: Journalism, Music & Sound Production, Film & TV, Media Planning
BJMC Entrance Exams: LUACMAT, SRMHCMAT, Goenkan Aptitude Test for Admission 
Explore frequently asked questions on BJMC. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

BHM in Hospitality & Travel
Bachelor of Hotel Management in Hospitality & Travel is also popularly commonly known as BHM in Hospitality & Travel. This is an undergraduate course, and can be pursued by a candidate who has cleared 10+2 from Science, Commerce or Arts streams.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a course in BHM in Hospitality & Travel:

BHM in Hospitality & Travel colleges in India
Popular Cities: Bangalore, Delhi/NCR, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune
Popular Specialisations: Food and Beverage Service, House Keeping
BHM in Hospitality & Travel Entrance Exams: Christ University Entrance Test, SPSAT, UGAT
Explore frequently asked questions on BHM in Hospitality & Travel. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Bachelor of Journalism (BJ)
BJ (Bachelor of Journalism) is an undergraduate Mass Communication & Media course of three years duration. The basic eligibility criteria for the course is completion of Class XII. Aspirants having a keen interest in print, electronic, and online media are apt to pursue BJ course.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up BJ course in Mass Communication & Media:

BJ colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Chennai
BJ Entrance Exam: DHSGSU UGET
Explore frequently asked questions on BJ. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Bachelor of Mass Media (BMM)
BMM (Bachelor of Mass Media) is an undergraduate level Mass Communication programme of three years duration. Students aspiring to build their career in Mass Communication & Media industry can take up this course after they complete their Class XII.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up BMM course in Mass Communication & Media:

BMM colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Mumbai, Gurgaon
BMM Entrance Exam: Xavier’s BMS Entrance Exam
Explore frequently asked questions on BMM. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

BA in Hospitality & Travel
Bachelors of Arts in Hospitality & Travel, popularly known as BA in Hospitality & Travel is an undergraduate course. A candidate who has cleared 10+2 or any other equivalent qualification from any stream is eligible for the course.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a course in BA in Hospitality & Travel:

BA in Hospitality & Travel colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Bangalore, Chandigarh Tricity, Chennai
Popular Specialisations: Hotel/ Hospitality Management, Travel and Tourism, Culinary Arts, Catering, Fares and Ticketing
BA in Hospitality & Travel Entrance Exam: IIHM eCHAT
Explore frequently asked questions on BA in Hospitality & Travel. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Bachelor of Arts (in Animation)
Bachelor of Arts or BA in Animation is a bachelor’s degree undertaken to become an animator. BA Animation is an undergraduate degree, students from Arts, Science or even Commerce stream are eligible to pursue a BA Animation degree.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a BA Animation course:

BA Animation colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Mumbai, Bangalore, Kolkata, Hyderabad
Popular Specialisations: Visual Effects (VFX) , 2D/3D Animation, Graphic/Web Design, Sound and Video Editing, Animation Film Making
Explore frequently asked questions on BA Animation. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Diploma in Education (DEd)
DEd or Diploma in Education is an undergraduate degree undertaken to take up teaching as a profession at nursery/kindergarden level in schools or educational institutes. DEd is a UG level course and one can pursue it right after Class 12.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up DEd course in Teaching and Education:

DEd colleges in India
Popular Cities: Delhi/NCR, Mumbai, Bangalore, Pune, Chennai
DEd Entrance Exam: Masters of Education Entrance Test
Explore frequently asked questions on DEd. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

BCom in Accounting and Commerce
Bachelor of Commerce, also known as BCom/BCom (Hons) is an undergraduate degree that can be pursued by students who have cleared 10+2 in Science, Arts or Commerce stream. However, preference is given to students who have studied Commerce in 10+2 level. The duration of the course spans over a period of 3 years in Indian colleges/Universities.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a course in Accounting & Commerce:

BCom/ BCom (Hons) in Accounting & Commerce colleges in India
Popular cities: Delhi NCR, Bangalore, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.
Popular specialisations: Accounting and Taxation
BCom Entrance Exams: BHU-UET, GLAET, GATA
Explore frequently asked questions on BCom/BCom (Hons) in Accounting & Commerce. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

BBA LLB (5 year integrated programme)
Bachelor of Business Administration and Bachelor of Legislative Law Honours, popularly known as BBA LLB is an undergraduate Administrative Law professional integrated course. Students opting for BBA LLB get to study the combination of the study of Business Administration and Law. A student who has qualified Senior Secondary (10+2) with a minimum of 50% marks is eligible for this course.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a course in BBA LLB:

BBA LLB colleges in India
Popular cities: Delhi/NCR,Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai and Kolkata
BBA LLB entrance exams: CLAT, LSAT India, ACLAT
Explore frequently asked questions on BBA LLB. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts. 

Bachelor in Computer Applications (IT and Software)
BCA is an undergraduate course generally undertaken by students who wish to explore the world of Computer languages. A BCA degree is at par with a BTech/BE degree in Computer Science or Information Technology. A candidate who has cleared 10+2 from any discipline with Maths (in some cases English too might be a requirement), and has obtained a minimum of 45%-55% marks in aggregate can pursue BCA.

Here is some useful information for aspirants looking to take up a course in BCA in IT & Software:

BCA in IT & Software colleges in India
Popular cities: Delhi NCR, Bangalore, Pune, Kolkata, Chennai
Popular Specialisations: Networking Hardware & Security, Mobile App Development, Programming, Cloud Computing and Game Design.
BCA entrance exams: BU-MAT, SET, GSAT
BCA in IT & Software college rankings
All about BCA in IT & Software
Explore frequently asked questions on BCA in IT & Software. In case you have specific queries, post your question which will be answered by our community of experts.

Jobs and Career Opportunity after 12th Arts
On completing a course after class 12 in the Arts stream aspirants have a plethora of job opportunities before them. After pursuing Arts/ Humanities stream at the Class 12 level, aspirants can either opt to pursue a pure Humanities course or they can even make a future in the field of design, mass communication, hospitality, law, aviation, teaching and the likes.

Some popular job profiles that candidates can pursue after completing an Arts course at the graduation level are as listed below:

Journalist

Reporter

Desk Writer

Designer

Flight Steward/ Airhostess

Housekeeping Executive

Front Office Executive

Chef

Floor Supervisor

Lawyer

Animator

Web Designer
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Even so, being confused is normal. We understand the pressure of entering an already infamous stream and not knowing what to say when someone asks you what you want to do. It’s okay if you don’t have it figured out, nobody really does. Given the diverse array of careers, it’s too early to decide the exact career you want, but you can certainly decide on what field holds your interest, and how to get there.

We’ve compiled a list of fields you can get into after 12th and the degrees you can pursue –

Law
A commonly pursued field after opting for Arts till grade 12is law. Although a very challenging and competitive field with very few seats in the best institutions, pursuing a career in law ensures high profile jobs with excellent pay. To get admission in reputed law colleges, students must get above 60% on their grade 12 board exams, and also get a phenomenal score in their CLAT exams. Getting admitted into the best Law colleges is no easy feat, but absolutely worth the hard work. Most students choose the BA + LLB course for 5 years.

Hotel/event management
Two incredibly job-oriented fields, students with a good temperament and knack for organisational skills will opt for this course. For this, you will have to do your bachelors in hotel/event management where, based on your skill and the college you complete the course from, you will be given a job. The hospitality industry is one that never runs out of jobs. Additionally, you may choose to do your MBA after this course and even start a hospitality business of your own.

BA + MA
The most commonly opted course after grade 12Arts is the BA course. The course duration is 3 years. You can choose from a very wide range of subjects to do your BA in, from Psychology, English Literature and History to Yoga, Agriculture, and French Literature. The list is endless. Truthfully, in today’s economy with all its competition, doing just a BA is almost always not enough to land you a well-paying job, at least in India. You must have a plan of sorts after graduating or continue your education by pursuing a Master’s degree or an MBA. More often than not, students end up choosing a career which is in no way related to their BA degree, or for that matter even their Masters, so choose carefully – but don’t worry too much about it.

Tourism
If travelling and sightseeing is your passion, then a career in tourism may just be the one for you. Although admittedly not a very lucrative field at first, it gets better with the more experience you gain. Many entrepreneurs start their own firms for travel and lodging, while others conduct guided tours. Tourism involves travel and glamour, but equal amounts of hard work and dedication.

BBA + MBA
If business and entrepreneurship is your forte, then choosing to major in BBA might be a good option for you. But you should know that a BBA degree by itself doesn’t hold much value, so most people choose to follow up with an MBA. Keep in mind that pursuing your MBA can be done after any degree and BBA is not a prerequisite for MBA.

Advertising
Creativity is of utmost importance for a career in advertising. When it comes to getting a job, your portfolio plays a greater role than your degree. To get into advertising, you don’t need a specific degree, but most people enter the field through a BMM or a BFA degree.

Journalism or Media
Another highly sought after field, you can enter into journalism or media by pursuing a Bachelor’s degree in media and communication. Like advertising, your portfolio, experience and skills are more important than your degree. You can also enter into journalism through BMM. For a career in journalism, you must be willing to travel long distances, be comfortable speaking to strangers and be assertive.

Arts is a stream of a million possibilities, and the ones listed here are just a few. It’s normal to be confused about what you want to do, especially when you’re spoilt for choice. Know where your strengths and interests lie, and if your personality fits your career. You are going to spend a majority of your life working, so it’s incredibly important for you to choose a career you genuinely enjoy. Taking aptitude tests to determine your path is highly recommended, because sometimes, we may not have an aptitude or personality for the career we want to choose.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
B.A. in History
B.A. in English
B.A. in Political Science
B.A. in Economics
BCA- Bachelor of Computer Application
B.A.+ L.L.B.- Bachelor of Arts & Bachelor of Legislative Law
Bachelor of Fashion Designing
Bachelor in Performing Arts
BBA- Bachelor of Business Administration
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
The various sought-after career options available to an Arts student are:
Law
Management
Teaching
Media
Hotel management and tourism
Fashion and designing
Journalism
IAS/IPS and Defence
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Here are a few job options available to students of arts:

Jobs	Average Salary (for freshers)
Lawyer	INR 5-7 lakhs
Animation and Graphic designer	INR 3-4 lakhs
Fashion Designer	INR 2-3 lakhs
Content Writing	INR 2-3 lakhs
Hotel Management	INR 5-6 lakhs
Journalists	INR 2-4 lakhs
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

